everybody welcome to another episode of
am a I'm your host Tom bill you thank
you for joining me today if you haven't
already and you're a fan of movies TV
shows comic books that kind of stuff
please know that we have a whole new
channel called impact Theory studios if
and only if you're a fan of that stuff
head over there right now
on YouTube and subscribe we're gonna be
dropping new content this Friday so far
we've been on on every Friday cadence
but it has more to do with when things
release than just the day of the week
but all right today I'm going to be
answering all of your questions and I'm
gonna ask you guys a question first and
foremost I want to know if you guys have
ever had one of your questions answered
here in the live so dropped it in just
yes or no let me know if you've ever had
one of your questions answered hopefully
if you have a burning question and I've
not yet gotten to it that somehow
someway you'll be able to convince chase
to pull your question as he is the
gatekeeper but keeping that gate well
alright we're gonna dive right in our
first question is from Sofia Muharram
and this is a from YouTube hi Tom do you
believe one can be successful doing a
lot of different work and studying many
different topics at once or would
focusing on one specific area be the
most effective strategy to success
alright the reality is you want to
reduce yes reduce your options if you
want to be successful they say that 80%
of business is knowing what to stay out
of and that really really is critical
and the example that I always give to
people is say you walk into a room with
a thousand doors your job as an
entrepreneur is to shut 999 of them and
choose one to walk through that's where
the real magic happens you've got to be
able to pick there's got to be something
that speaks to you more there's got to
be something that you believe in more
that you want to bring to this world
that you enjoy doing like whatever that
can be monetized and is fun enjoyable
and meet your mission like pick one you
can only do one at a time you can do
everything just not at the same time
you've got to do them sequentially so go
through that first or figure out if that
really is something that you're going to
enjoy that you want to go deep down if
you want to become the
best in the world at that and if you go
through and realize it isn't something
that you want to do no worries
turn around go back through the other
way shut that door and open a new one so
you can go in and try it and see if you
like it these are not lifelong
commitments walking through that door
but you need to understand that you need
to act you need to create momentum
you've got to get going you've got to
pick a direction and rock it out so
that's the key reduce your options don't
try to keep you know a million things as
possibilities that's the death knell of
success all right next question is from
Lavin M Saul and this comes from
Facebook hello please help me I want to
go forward but my mom and my brothers
keep telling me that I'm a loser that I
can't do anything and that I'm stupid
what should I do step by step to improve
this situation all right number one oh
this is tough and I don't know how old
you are if at all possible if it truly
if people that you love and care about
are calling you a loser and they're not
just saying hey this is gonna be really
hard you're gonna fail like that is so
binary you need to get out of the house
now if you're underage
obviously that becomes infinitely more
difficult so know that if you are 18 or
over my official advice is get the hell
out of that household being around
people that are that toxic that are
actively trying to bring you down is
just disastrous so get out
if on the other hand you can't that's
not realistic you're underage you're
still in high school or something like
that then you're going to really have to
learn how to let that roll off your back
to not focus on it to recognize whatever
crazy reason is making them say that
even if all you have done in your life
is fail fail fail only an ass is going
to actually say that you're a loser and
equate that to a permanent state of
being they're heckling you and that
comes from something within themselves
for whatever reason they want to see you
fail and that is always about that
person and not about you so recognizing
that and making sure that you're putting
in the time energy and effort to make
sure that you're not taking that stuff
to heart you're not letting it become a
part of your identity and then three
recognize the truth of the human
condition which is that you may not be
good at anything
now you may actually
losing like everything you're doing you
may actually be losing at every single
one of them but humans have the ability
to change and over time you're going to
be able to pursue a skill set get good
at that
and at some point hopefully become so
good that you can't be ignored so
understanding the human ability the
intrinsic ability that humans have to
adapt and grow so whenever somebody is
trying to paint you with a permanent
brush and look the word loser you chose
it the word loser is very specific you
only throw that at somebody if you're
trying to hurt them so they're gonna
give you an awesome opportunity to
practice and that's number four you want
to practice ignoring things like that
you want to practice people attacking
you and you not succumbing to that
you're not letting it become part of
your identity you're not letting it
disrupt you emotionally so you're gonna
practice in these moments where they're
hurling these insults at you to get
really good at not listening to the
haters not letting it become something
that's internal to you and that is
absolutely critical so those are four
steps that you want to do and I'll
expand on the one we're getting so good
they can't ignore you is going to become
the most critical thing here now this
isn't getting so good that they
acknowledge you they're never going to
acknowledge you if they are such
Psychopaths that they're hurling insults
like that at somebody some somebody that
they supposedly love then I have very
little hope for them coming around
they're forever going to I'm guessing
forever going to reject you and say
things like that so don't waste an ounce
of energy and trying to convince them
this is about convincing the world this
is about delivering enough value to the
world that they respond and whatever it
is you're trying to get good at whether
you're trying to be the worst accountant
whether you're trying to be an athlete
whether you're trying to be a content
creator whatever it is that you're
trying to do I'm talking about the world
getting so good that the world can
ignore you that they come to your door
that you're helping them in some way
that people recognize that so you're
gonna have to shut a door on them it's
what I call the impossible to please
father syndrome a lot of dads for
whatever reason employ the strategy I
think it's a horrific strategy that has
really long lasting calm
the quinces because for whatever reason
especially when it's your family you're
gonna want to please them stop don't do
that you're gonna have to practice not
doing that and if you can not find
yourself in a position where you just
want to please them if you can do that
with family you'll be able to do with
anybody and that is an incredibly
incredibly powerful skill and that comes
down to confidence confidence comes from
competence so it all comes back to
getting good at something again don't
worry about them but you've got to be
secure in who you are and what you're
about and worry about whether that has
influence outside of your family all
right question from Jay Shree thil Shree
jaishree thil Shree that is hella legit
this is Facebook
how should I get charged up when people
around me are more talented than me oh
my god in the question is the answer
man if people are better than me then I
do two things one I welcome that with a
level of humility that I can't even
begin to tell you because I want to see
how I'm inadequate I want to stare at
that and really figure it out now I
don't want to stare at it coz I want to
feel badly about myself I want to stare
at it because when you can do that then
you can begin to identify the skills
that you're lacking and you can go out
and acquire those skills but if you're
not willing to look at what those skills
are that you're actually missing then
you're never going to go out and acquire
those and even when some part of your
brain knows that you're lacking those
skills if you don't fully embrace it
you're gonna shut down the other part of
you that doesn't want to recognize that
shuts everything down and you don't go
on a relentless quest to get those
skills now the other thing is I'm gonna
get super fired up because I don't like
being anywhere but first and so I want
to win no I'm not one of those
Psychopaths that's like I'll only play
games if I know I can win that's
absolutely not true for me I'm all for
getting my ass handed to me because I
look at myself on a very long timeline
so I am very willing if I enjoy
something let's take video games
I am atrocious at video games but I know
that if I'm willing to put in the effort
that I can get better and when I think
where I was a couple years ago at the
game destiny which I care about to have
a lot of fun and treat it like it's my
version of adult competitive sports I go
I'm trying to get better and I actually
think about improving I don't go in and
just play I'm not just trying to pass
the time like I'm trying to engage and
practice and think about the process of
getting better now part of that is
entering in knowing okay I may lose this
playing people that are better than me
and instead of letting that erode my
self-confidence I'm just trying to look
for the opportunities to practice and
get better and get charged up I'm gonna
beat this [__] and I focus on
that a lot and that is exciting for me I
love the idea that there are people out
there that are better than me at
everything that I do and one by one
systematically I hunt those
[__] down and I love that and I
I don't know how to help people embrace
that there's joy to be had that in fact
I know I know exactly how to do that it
goes like this what you build your
self-esteem around matters and if you
pride yourself on being the best you're
screwed it's it's just gonna be an
unending parade of misery because you're
always gonna be encountering people that
are better than you if on the other hand
you can flip it around and and actually
build your pride around two things I've
already mentioned one staring Nate the
willingness to stare naked Liat your
inadequacy so that you can get better
and then recognizing that you're willing
to put in the work to be the learner to
gain the skills over time if you do
those two things then you can take pride
in the process you can literally get
filled with pride confidence joy
happiness fulfillment just by being
willing to pursue it so man that's how
I'd get jacked up about that all right
next question this is from char me yo
char me yo this is on YouTube I'm 23 and
we'll have to get a new job in 10 months
how do I pick something should I get a
job and one of my passions or should I
get one a bit met and build a financial
backbone
Charmy are you are you new to the feed I
so I am I cannot stress enough
especially when you're young you're in
this magical time period where you can
still get laid even if you're poor
because of that you're not
gonna start making weird decisions
people start making really weird
decisions later in life when they're
being judged and I look ladis is a funny
way to say that right now when you're
young people aren't judging you for
being broke they're really gonna judge
you later in life for sure you're gonna
judge yourself there's gonna be things
you want to make happen whether that's
just have a family support loved ones
whatever the case may be every year that
goes by you're gonna want money more and
more you're gonna want stability more
and more because you're gonna have more
and more responsibilities that you take
on as a part of the maturing process and
look it doesn't have to be that way but
that is certainly the typical way that
people live their lives so while you're
young embrace that it is very okay to be
poor and in that time make the demand
that you earn a living doing something
that you're deeply passionate about that
or to build that passion to go
experience a bunch of different things
and really go through the process of
building that take a job that you think
might be interesting and know hey I
might have to jettison this because it
doesn't end up being the thing that I
actually care about and I'm not gonna
build a passion around that thing but
doing that now starting to make those
demands now is absolutely critical and I
get it like having six months in the
bank is really really important but I
would even take a job I would definitely
be willing to give my time away so let's
start with that I think that's actually
the surest way to make money in the long
run is to give away your services in the
beginning in exchange for knowledge and
connections just no smarter way to build
a career than that and then to make sure
that you're doing something that you
care about or think that you may care
about so that you can really figure that
out so that over the course of your
career that you're headed down a path
you really care about
so yeah the six-month thing I get it
super-powerful but in the beginning that
would be a secondary focus to me over
getting the knowledge and connections
because even if I don't have a lot of
money coming in I can whittle my
expenses down to virtually nothing
living on somebody else's couch staying
at my parents house renting a basement
like whatever you need to do do that
because man finding something that you
really really care about and building
your career around that will serve you
for decades to come
all right next question is from Jamie
sandesh this is on Facebook when it
comes to reading I tend to feel like my
time investment needs to be rewarded
with
gaining knowledge or new insight this
leads me to choosing to read
biographical self-development books
rather than fiction how do you get value
out of playing video games of reading
fiction well welcome to my nightmare my
friend so first of all I read one
fiction book a year for the exact reason
that you just enumerated so I I have an
internal sense that I'll get more out of
reading nonfiction than I will fiction
and that that is by the way served me
incredibly incredibly well so I don't
think you're doing something bad there
the other thing is for about 15 years I
didn't really play video games I played
maybe an hour a week
I didn't read fiction except on vacation
but that pretty much holds true I didn't
watch a lot of movies and watch TV
because I was building the base of
knowledge and career expertise for lack
of a better word to ultimately get where
I wanted to go I don't regret that at
all working around the clock for you
know 15 years was it served me very very
well now I still work a lot but one it's
something that I'm entirely passionate
about so I have that so I have the
energy it pulls me through I'm excited
to do it it gives me more energy than it
takes and then to now I make I do make
time for one priority number one my
relationship that is my biggest like
indulgence in that it's not necessarily
moving me forward in life my wife
actually happens to make me a better
person so that is wonderful wonderful
wonderful but if I didn't have her I
would probably still allocate that time
to something fun at this point in my
life that wasn't just you know reading
improving and all of that so what I do
is I a liqu ate a certain amount of time
on the weekends to work and then I
allocate a certain amount of time on the
weekends to just absolute fun whether
this moves me for it or not
also I have a strategy when it comes to
work on the weekends with rare exception
there are times where I end up having to
do a contract or something but with rare
exceptions on the weekend while I'm
doing work I'm only doing the things
that I really enjoy so answering
comments maybe a piece of content that I
really care about and I really want to
see you get off the ground now by the
way and this is to answer your question
about video games movies reading books
like you could find a way to put that at
the sin
of your economic universe so for me now
the reason that I'm playing or sorry
that I'm watching more TV and movies is
because that's a huge part of where
we're going with the studio so I
actually need to be a breast of that
stuff now that wasn't a mistake that
wasn't an accident that was something
that I did very much on purpose that was
me saying what do I like spending my
time on and how can I put that at the
core of my universe so doing that now
I'm still very careful about how much
time allocate to that stuff and I do
that primarily on the weekends and I do
it with my wife so that we're watching
shows that we can enjoy together so
finding a way to combine things okay
next question this is from Mitchell Saab
on Facebook how do you overcome the
financial roadblock I have great ideas
and drive but they all really depend on
money I don't have so I'll just
interpret that as how do you overcome
financial roadblocks in general and
really it's so hard to answer without
knowing where you're at in your life if
you're young hearken back to what I was
just saying a few minutes ago which is I
wouldn't worry about money at all I
would just be trying to get knowledge
and experience so knowledge and
experience and really knowing how to do
something and being able to execute
against it is how I overcame not having
a lot of money so getting so good they
can't ignore you when you really know
what you're doing and you can really add
value to people's lives they're gonna
pay you for that so I'm sure there are
things you want to build in your life
that are gonna require money you're
gonna have to work to generate that
money or go convince somebody with money
to partner with you that you're gonna do
all the hard work and all they have to
do is supply the capital that's a very
traditional road to success where you
get other people to invest in you that
comes down to how good are you if you're
really good at that thing that you're
trying to get people to invest in you
and it can actually be turned into real
money for the investor then you can get
money relatively easily though the time
that it's hard to get money is when you
don't have any connections you've got no
track record and quite frankly you're
not so good that you can't be ignored so
take lucky what was the name lucky
Palmer who's the guy that did oculus the
key was like 19 yeah so young it was
like ridiculous but he made something
that people really wanted and he sold
for just an astronomical amount of money
so it doesn't necessary
they come down to having a ton of cash
to throw it something it really comes
down to how good are you and if you can
convince people to join you so right now
there are billions of dollars in capital
where people are like I have this money
but I don't have an incredible human
being in fact I will just tell you right
now and I know that this is gonna invite
a world of hurt but this is so [__]
true right millions of dollars I would
love to invest but I can't find the
people to invest in not the ideas ideas
are cheap I can't find the people to
invest in so become one of those people
become one of those people where I'm
just like I want to throw my money at
you and then they're gonna be thousands
of people like me that will line up
they've got the capital but they don't
have the time or the knowledge in a
given area to execute and they need
somebody who is an undeniable force of
nature undeniable is the key word there
and hey while we're here let's talk
about what it means to be a force of
nature I find so many people it is so
easy to stop them with a simple
rejection that they either double down
on stalking instead of going out and
just getting good or they just quit but
what you should do is go okay I'm not
undeniable yet I'm gonna redouble my
efforts I'm gonna focus on this thing
that I'm trying to build that I'm gonna
show people I'm gonna get traction
I'm gonna go door to door if I have to
and build this thing up go watch our
episode with John Paul DeJoria the
founder of Patron tequila and Paul
Mitchell door-to-door door-to-door four
years selling his product out of a trunk
and the man has since built two
multi-billion dollar businesses okay so
that's how it's done
you go out you do whatever the hell it
takes to create an amazing product and
then whatever it takes to sell that
product so there are ways men don't
don't make excuses and don't accept
excuses from yourself all right
oh wow this is uh this has got a lot of
like lines and dashes and swooshes above
it Lazare or osowiec when I guess that's
relatively close YouTube what do you
think about circadian rhythm and how it
effects on our health okay I know
very little about it but I will say that
it seems really real and I bet that this
plays heavily into anyone's ability to
optimize their health from God I was
just watching a video about this today
and this came up and he listed from
metabolic response I know that people
that skip a night's sleep their blood
tests look like the blood test of a
diabetic God growth hormone I'm sure
it's dramatically affected so yeah there
are better people to answer this
question than I I'm sure the way that
I'm answering this makes that patently
obvious but I think that it's it's very
important so pay attention to it yeah
there's also this thing called
chronotype where what type of sleeper
are you are you do you prefer to stay up
late you prefer to get up early all of
that good stuff so look into all that
but I'm it matters all right this one is
from Joel Allegra oh this is from
Facebook what advice would you give to
an entrepreneur in a third world country
with a poverty so extreme no internet
connection and so on how to level up a
business when the population of the
areas has very low purchasing power or
buying capacity okay so I have no
experience in this whatsoever but I'll
take a stab at it just knowing what I
know about human nature so if I'm
growing up in that kind of environment
I'm gonna find the person that's had a
level of success the kind of success
that I want to have it I'm gonna go and
donate my time this is brutally hard
when you don't have access to books so
the only thing you really have to throw
at them is insane amounts of hard work
so I would go to as many people as I
could find and I would give them the
following spiel I'm gonna work for you
for free for man normally I say 90 days
but you may have to do it for longer to
really overcome something like this and
you say I'm gonna work harder than
anybody else you've ever met and I am
doing that in exchange for knowledge and
connections as long as you're helping me
grow and get better I will come here and
absolutely crush it for you and deliver
whatever I need to deliver do whatever I
need to do anything you ask me within my
code of ethics I will do to help you out
if you make that offer to a hundred
people 200 someone is going to take you
up on that but you've got to be willing
to face your fears of going up to them
making that proposal knowing that you're
gonna get rejected over
over and over and over and over that
even the people who don't reject you
you're gonna have to go to them many
many times you're gonna have to find a
way to deliver value on the way in show
them how hard you're willing to work man
wash their car like whatever do
something to get their attention do
something to show them that you're gonna
be worth their time and effort but that
is absolutely what I would do that or
man if you can emigrate and get
somewhere where at least you have access
to the Internet that would be amazing
but that's what I would do in fact how
did you write in on Facebook if you
don't have the internet so already
you're showing a level of ingenuity so
keep doing that whatever it is that's
allowed you to get to me here yeah
you're already showing ingenuity keep
pushing that okay question from Eric
Lanoue this is on Facebook what is your
process to get into ketosis don't move
off this one cuz it's multi parted do
you fast to jump to ketosis and what are
your thoughts on exogenous ketones
thanks for all the amazing content is
amazing Thank You Man okay so here's my
process for getting into ketosis usually
I do it through dietary means first and
then once I'm in ketosis then I start
really restricting my calories so my
process goes like this I need a high fat
diet low protein no carbohydrate I will
have some vegetables but it's relatively
limited I am going to test my blood so I
know exactly where I'm at so I use a
precision extra and I use the strip's
the blood strips not urine and what I'm
gonna do is one my calories are going to
be somewhat naturally restrict in fact
I'll just walk you through my exact
meals so when I wake up I workout fasted
I don't eat usually till about 8:00 8:30
if I'm going ketosis I might push it a
little bit to say 9:00 so that's a good
13 hours 14 hours from my previous meal
which would have been the night before
and I'm going to eat usually just quest
keto cups so it's about 250 calories and
it's a two-to-one ratio so for those who
don't know the ratios two to one means
for free combined
gram of protein a carbohydrate I'm going
to eat two grams of fat so if I ate one
gram of protein one gram of carb I'm
going to eat four grams of fat so that
has a two-to-one
ratio that's my first meal my next meal
is a it's eight ounces of burger so it's
probably 70/30 I get it from fat burger
so I don't even know the official ratio
but I'm gonna guess that it's around 70
to 30 no bun no sauce other than mustard
because there's no calories and there's
no carbohydrates or anything in that so
it is literally the meat cheese and
lettuce and pickle and I eat half of
that so it's eight ounces and then my
next meal again is two keto cups so
again two to one and then my final meal
is again the second half of that burger
that I had earlier so that's all I'm
gonna eat that day and I'm gonna be
testing my blood now once I get into
ketosis which is 0.5 millimoles of
ketones present in my bloodstream or
higher then I'm gonna start leaving out
my first meal so normally my first meal
like says around 8:00 or 9:00 a.m. now
I'm gonna push it and eat my first meal
around 11:30 12 o'clock
that's gonna be around the 16 hour
window for me depending on when I eat my
last meal the night before so I'm doing
now what they call intermittent fasting
where I'm doing a 16-8 split meaning 16
hours of fast eat all my calories in an
eight-hour window and then I have the
exact meals that I just talked to you
about but I drop out one of the keto
cups so I'm shaving about 250 calories
off my total meals for the day but maybe
even more importantly I've just pushed
back or extended the duration of fasting
which means I'm going deeper into
ketosis I usually end up somewhere
around 1.5 million moles of ketones in
my bloodstream fasted and and I'd so all
I stay in that state for about five days
so I start on Monday I'm ketogenic all
throughout the weekend which means I'm
eating at least a two-to-one ratio and
then on Monday I start restricting my
calories which I don't do in the
weekends which is when I really get into
ketosis
I started doing intermittent fasting and
then on Saturday I take my calories back
up again even though I stay ketogenic
and ratio but my calories go so high
that I drop out of ketosis there you
have it okay do I fast a jump you just
heard my whole thing exogenous ketones I
don't [__] with them some people do
there's a lot of really interesting
content out there about exogenous
ketones that it may have benefits on
things even like neurodegenerative
disease I'm not an expert on that but
it's pretty fascinating and we were
looking at that pretty heavily a quest
so I know enough to be dangerous but not
enough that I take them myself so there
you have it all right question is from
Diaz 9 YouTube hey Tom
once impact Theory has grown huge as
blank will you still do these amaz so
I'm a big big believer in do what got
you here so we're building the community
with the amaz I will do the amaz as long
as there is interest in them so
absolutely alright next question is from
Matthew grant this is on YouTube my
entire life I've done jobs I hate I'm at
a point now where I'm 32 years old and
not getting any younger and I'm sick of
wasting my life Oh Matthew you're my
kind of person how do I figure out what
I'm supposed to do okay I love this
question all right first of all the most
amazing things in my life have come from
getting so bitterly disappointed with
myself with where I'm at in life that I
finally have the rage that I need to
take action so dude I'm stoked for you
you're rapidly approaching rock bottom
and that's gonna serve you very very
well I want you to fan those flames I
want you to get pissed about where you
are at 32 that you're not at all where
you thought you were gonna be that
you've only been doing jobs that you
hate dude fan those [__] flames and I
want you to get really sick of having
wasted your life now now that we're in
that position
what you're going to do you're not going
to figure out what you're supposed to do
by looking inward and hoping that
there's something that you just haven't
uncovered you're gonna go experience a
lot of stuff if you know what jobs you
hate what jobs do you love what is your
ideal fantasy job who's living your
ideal life like identify that stuff and
then go interact with that and see if
you actually like it that could be
donating your times nights and weekends
cuz I'm hey I get it at 32 you gotta
make ends meet I totally understand that
now by the way if you don't have kids
you're not married
and you can cut your expenses back to
the quick I would do that first and
foremost cut my expenses back to the
quick I would save up money so that I've
got six months so I can really go and
counter stuff it would be very easy for
you to get back into a job that you hate
and just make money so don't waste any
time panicking about that and then if
you don't already know you're gonna take
that time to really experiment with a
whole lot of stuff to find out what you
have an interest for dive deep in it and
see if that turns into a fascination if
it turns into a fascination that's
something that you're gonna want to
start gaining master and you're not
gonna have the time to actually become a
master in it so you're gonna have to get
a job while it's in that period of
fascination and hope that you're betting
right but if you don't don't be afraid
to change stream but that process is
very simple what are you interested in
engage with it see if it turns into a
fascination if it really does turn into
a fascination then gain mastery try to
become the greatest in the world at that
thing and you are not too old which I'm
sure is exactly what's on your mind very
much not do anything you set your mind
to at any age so get after it all right
next up sim land sim land my
[__] from Estonia coming here to
spend some time with the crew we're
super excited the winner of the
refer-a-friend contest
alright this on Facebook Tom I've
recently started my own podcast word up
any tips for probing into the mindset
and picking the brains of your guests
how do you get them to open up and enter
into deep rabbit holes of ingenious
ramblings okay it goes like this
you need to know a lot a lot a lot about
them so you need to do a gaggle of
research they need to be a little bit
startled by how much you know about them
then before the interview even begins
you're gonna tell them I'm not a
journalist I'm here because you've
you're here because you've inspired me
and I want to give you a chance to
inspire my audience I have no interest
in asking you like hard curveball
questions this is legitimately I want to
give you a chance to shine I want to
give you a chance to inspire my audience
and that helps them lower their defenses
then from there during the interview I'm
always trying to ask questions I am
legitimately fascinated by one that
helps me manage my anxiety so when I tap
into like every every time no matter how
many these [__] episodes I've done I
get anxious leading up to it like am I
gonna be able to find the interview like
you know there's all these cameras
there's like
people here when we filmed this stuff so
my anxiety's going up the moment my
anxiety drops to zero is the moment that
I find something about that person that
legitimately fascinates me well I just
want to know I want to know I think it's
going to empower me and I think it's
going to empower the audience that is so
huge like when I'm like oh my god if I
can get them to talk about this this
vein this thing that they're really good
at that they have some unique insight
that I found really empowering and I
know that the audience is gonna love it
dude I'm so into that so find that way
to do that and then they're gonna feel
that they're gonna feel you're sincere
like appreciation for who they are
because you come in so knowledgeable
about what they know and what they do
and then as you go in the interview as
they start giving answers you're gonna
know where they're going so my whole
thing is to get them out of their loop
so they're so used to giving the same
answers like in fact oh god guys if
you're thinking about asking me to come
on your podcast do me the [__] favor
of not asking me the same questions that
everyone else asks me cuz it gets really
[__] boring and my heart has been
hardening a little confession time my
heart has been hardening I've been
brought on to so many podcasts and it's
clear they've never listened to another
podcast that I've done and so they asked
me the same [__] questions and that
drives me crazy it's just boring it's
boring and my brain turns off so I
remember after doing the 24 hour live I
had to I know I had one podcast that I
had to record something for us
so I'd already been up for like I don't
know 30 plus hours and then I was being
interviewed again and I literally felt
like a dolphin so a dolphin half of
their brain turns off at a time so they
can sleep so one hemisphere at a time
and because the questions I was being
asked were the same questions I'm always
asked I felt just like that where I
would be in the middle of answering a
question and be like oh my god I'm still
talking because I've given that answer
so many times so many times so many
times that it's dull for me so that's
bad for their audience you
exist they can go see all the other
interviews that I've done so take your
people somewhere fresh all right
next question this is from Amanda kofi
okay I need some guidance
I've always reacted badly when someone
ignores me makes me feel stupid or acts
like my feelings do not matter it's so
very instant I'm filled with pure anger
that I want to start to cry or hide what
are the best ways to handle okay so
first let's acknowledge that is so
amazingly self-aware of you the very
fact that you're asking this question
the very fact that you can break down
your emotional response I know that
you're gonna be successful at this so
here's what you're gonna do you're gonna
take total ownership for that it has
nothing to do with the other person once
you understand that this is not about
them this isn't about whether they're
ignoring you or not this is about you
you don't believe in yourself you don't
have a sense of self-worth internal
which you're gonna get I so believe that
you're going to get it but first you're
gonna have to allow yourself to believe
that you are worthy and it doesn't have
to be you are worthy because you have
some amazing skill or that you've done
something amazing in your life it is
you're worthy because the human is the
ultimate adaptation machine and that
you're gonna grow and you're gonna blow
yourself away in this process so your
goal now is to shorten the timeline
where you're feeling that anger that
rage that desire to go cry and hide
you're going to recognize all the the
proprioceptive feedback loops that the
human body has so when you feel this way
if you have to excuse yourself excuse
yourself it doesn't matter that person
that one interaction is totally [__]
irrelevant in the grand scheme of things
you need to get to the point where you
can very rapidly get yourself out of
that neurochemical state which is
exactly what it is
neurons that fire together wire together
you've had years and years and years of
feeling neglected by people not having
an internal self-worth that's strong
enough to go it doesn't matter if they
ignore me or not so you've those neurons
are wired together so when you perceive
that someone is ignoring you and by the
way you're almost certainly wrong about
that but when you perceive that someone
is ignoring you it [__] triggers all
of that hard wiring that you have so
you're gonna have to undo that by
creating a new habit loop and the great
news is every habit loop needs a trigger
and you already have that trigger which
is the desire to curl it up into the
fetal position and cry so we know what
the trigger is going to be so
when you feel that you're going to
trigger a habit loop of reaffirming in
yourself that it doesn't matter whether
this person ignores you that you've got
to have the centeredness and
self-confidence in you without any need
for any external feedback from people so
they can ignore you all that you want
and then to run through the mechanisms
to get yourself out of that
neurochemical state the easiest one for
me is the laugh out loud and that's why
I said you may want to excuse yourself
from that person so you can go laugh out
loud but I'm deadly serious go laugh out
loud like go force yourself to laugh out
loud for 30 seconds you will be startled
by how rapidly that changes your neuro
chemistry so you're gonna do that and at
first you're still gonna be pissed it's
gonna be super awkward and you're gonna
feel really weird laughing out loud and
the first couple times you're not gonna
want to excuse yourself and it's gonna
be this whole thing and then later
you're gonna be annoyed with yourself
because you stayed and that really hurt
feeling for so long you may have lashed
back out at them all things which are
counterproductive which is why you ask a
question in the first place and then
you're gonna start taking the steps to
actually do that but if you start
forcing yourself to do the things stand
up straighter smile laugh out loud
remind yourself it doesn't matter what
they think and by the way there's this
thing called the deep limbic system the
deep limbic system colors with emotion
all of the things you're going through
you're gonna read about the deep limbic
system so that you understand what it's
doing and how to combat it but the
things that I just gave you the ways
you're gonna come at it alright and then
there's Daniel dr. Daniel a men's
concept of automatic negative thoughts
ants you gonna learn to squish those not
let them intrude in your mind and then
you're going to take that reaction time
from very long and deeply distressing to
you as a human trying to improve and
you're going to shorten it down to
nothing and in that process you're going
to go from having to just tell yourself
that you have self-worth to actually
feeling and believing it because you're
gonna see how you progress through that
to where that gets down to where it
doesn't even register on your face which
ultimately is the goal okay
this one's from Stacey Lee via YouTube
how do you write content even when it's
the very last thing you want to do
Goggins of course comes to mind but when
my brain is saying no how do you draw
inspiration to continue working writing
okay I don't draw inspiration so what I
do when is something that I don't want
to do it's all about identity for me
it's about
identity and about having a compelling
future so my identity is that I do and
believe that which moves me towards my
goals period so if doing this thing that
I don't want to do moves me towards my
goals then that's what I'm going to do
plain and simple and if it moves me away
from my goals to not do it then I'm
definitely not gonna do that so you
really want to focus on that and having
that compelling future something that's
exciting for you something that's gonna
pull you through xab solutely critical
and i think is rapidly becoming one of
the most neglected parts in the world of
like what should my passion be where
should I be going what should I be doing
with my life it should be something that
excites you it should be something that
excites you so keep in mind
David Goggins had a compelling future he
had believed growing up that he was the
weakest man that God ever created his
compelling future was becoming the
toughest man alive so that excited him
that gave him the drive to keep going so
you need that it's not just about going
out and watching inspirational videos
look I love him as much as the next
person
but at the end of the day I'm really
trying to remember what I'm trying to
accomplish what my identity is and then
tapping into that thing that excites me
all right
next question
fella Cikini felissa keaney that's close
to kapha and this is on facebook what do
you do in the early days what did you do
in the early days of your career to
separate yourself from others as a
motivational speaker specifically so
those are two very different questions
in the early days of my career to
separate myself from my buddy I ought
worked everyone like to an embarrassing
degree and that's just how I made a name
for myself I realized that I couldn't
always have the right answer so I was
gonna put energy behind other people's
right answer and give them full credit
for it but then really helped push that
forward I was going to work essentially
around the clock and just always always
always try to be learning faster than
everybody else try to come in the next
day better than I was the day before and
that will create resentment which it
certainly did in my life but it ended up
paying
off in spades because at the end of the
day people a players want to be with a
players and if you can crush it dude
people are going to keep inviting you to
be a part of bigger and bigger things
all right what I did is a motivational
speaker to separate myself was honestly
build a billion-dollar business so that
was it and for my entire life until
recently I didn't even think about that
like that wasn't what I was trying to do
I was trying to build a business I was
trying to get into film like those were
the things that I was trying to do and I
was trying to become extraordinarily
good at those things and I didn't give a
single speech I think from the time not
like a fish like okay that's a lie as an
entrepreneur to my company I was giving
them all the time
but I didn't do like official
inspirational speaking for ever since
like high school so it was just about
really doubling down and getting good at
business that was the thing and then you
go give the talk saying hey I've done
this you carry a lot of credibility and
and then you have to get good at
speaking so it's not to contradict
myself but I wasn't doing official
speaking but I was constantly in a
position where I was speaking so either
trying to convince somebody to buy my
product or talking to my employees it
was day after day after day after day
after day of practicing that so get
really good and be backed up by
something all right
question from Stephen gobril YouTube Tom
how do you deal with opinions when
entering into the professional work
world I would deal with opinions I think
that hard work is a part of life but my
colleagues complain a lot how do you
address this respectfully okay so I
don't quite understand the first one so
I'm just gonna move on the first
question I'm gonna move on to the second
one I think that hard work is a part of
life and my colleagues complain a lot
how do you address that respectfully so
lead by example so I don't address it I
don't tell people hey don't be negative
what I tell people is hey we've got this
project we really need to get it done
here's what I think that we can do when
they're like oh man we're never going to
do this I'm like hey I totally get that
odds are stacked against us but here's
how I look at it here's how I think that
we can do it and I I think that if we
keep a solution-oriented mindset we're
really going to crush this
and then just by way of full disclosure
now being the CEO you can really get
away with straight telling people don't
[__] bring negativity here so I felt
a little bit like I was not being honest
because I do call people out all the
[__] time on that now
I didn't at the beginning of my career I
did not have the clout and so I was just
always trying to throw out answer
solutions how could we do this what was
the way that we could look at it where
it could be done and if you're
optimistic if you're bringing solutions
like first of all that's the only way
things are ever gonna get done and then
bringing energy bringing optimism
bringing enthusiasm being excitable is
contagious and people want to be around
that so even if it's not your natural
state which by the way I am a very
excitable person but I'm also wildly
introverted so I've had to find a way to
bring those two things together so that
I could leverage my excitability in
moments where even though I wanted to be
introverted I would leverage that
internal excitement externalize it force
myself to try and infect the room with
it and then people want to be around you
so lead by example always be
solution-oriented and everybody's gonna
follow or they're gonna get the [__] out
of the way all right question is from
cieth Rena Thune YouTube hi I'm going
through a phase where I've achieved a
lot in the line of work I'm doing people
tell me they get inspired by the work I
do because of the positive feedback I'm
getting overconfident because my
subconscious knows I'm successful faster
than I ever expected how can I stay
focused without letting compliments get
in the way of long-term success alright
this is another one where the fact that
you're asking the question gives me a
lot of encouragement that you're gonna
be able to solve the problem as a just a
high degree of self-awareness so being
focused on the fact that in fact here
here it is you need to be able to hold
two competing ideas in your head so the
confidence is awesome and the confidence
is going to serve you well and
succeeding faster than you ever expected
you should be telling yourself that
story I worked my ass off I got so good
people couldn't ignore me and I did it
faster than I thought I was gonna be
able to do and you're gonna want to
praise internally the process don't
reward yourself emotionally for being
smart or gifted or talented anything
like that
it is you put in the hard work you got
good at something and that is being
recognized and
well done for that on the other hand you
need to know that the only thing that's
going to serve you long term is the deep
humility that if you don't stay hungry
to learn if you're not showing up every
day to get better if you can't recognize
that while you may be the best person in
your group you're for sure not the best
in the world because I'd never heard of
you so if you're gonna become the best
in the world you have to have a deep
humility and man if you want some deep
humility go [__] check YouTube
whatever it is that you do there's
somebody right now that is like 14
million subs that you've never [__]
heard of and they're in your space this
happens to me every day
so have the deep humility to know that
you've got to get a lot better if you
want to get a lot bigger so get better
focus on that know that whatever you've
accomplished there is just a massive
world of opportunity ahead of you and
that you've only just begun to crush it
so focus on that all right
con jet-set foo Facebook hello I
recently separated with my husband of
five years intense I feel for you my
husband cheated on me damn and used to
call me fat unattractive good lord the
hits just keep on coming I feel free now
but have regrets thinking how could I
let him do that to me for so long how
can I get past the grudges and anger to
get to my destiny alright so this is a
day of just amazing self awareness so
first of all what you've gone through
really sucks
it's just objectively it's super shitty
right okay so now that we can recognize
that now you have to ask yourself does
wallowing that in any way shape or form
serve you and the answer is no so you've
been victimized force ways but you have
to own that you let that happen
you acknowledge that in the question so
you know that you let that happen but
beating yourself up would be as big of a
waste of time as continuing to be pissed
off by that person so just from being
purely effective standpoint optimism
enthusiasm excitement these are the
things that are gonna get you moving
forward those are gonna be the things
you're gonna have to rely on when things
get hard when they get boring you're
gonna have to be amped up and to
obsessively think about the negative
things the things that went wrong why do
they treat me like this that doesn't
help you it keeps you in this negative
Loup where you're not getting empowered
you're not getting more confident you're
not gonna radiate anything that anyone
wants to be around you're not gonna be
able to do much by yourself you're gonna
need to build a community around you no
matter what even if you just want to be
a lynchpin employee like at the end of
the day like you've got to give people
excited to be around you if you want to
execute effectively if you want to be a
great parent like the first thing you
should be radiating is warmth your kids
should want to be around you they should
literally warm their hands on the fire
that you cannot stop from emanating from
within you which is joy love beauty
right now look I'm a rage and beauty guy
so 20% of my time I am gonna look at
that I am gonna be pissed off with
myself for having let that happen but
only so that I can invest harder into
the beautiful things where I spend 80
percent of my time only to make sure
that I never let something like that
happen again okay so it is very very
careful that balance so to put a really
fine point on it the only way to get
past this stuff is to let it go and the
only way I think to let it go is to say
I'm gonna do and believe that which
moves me towards my goals you need to
know what your goal is but I'm gonna
guess that your goal is not served by
you feeling badly about yourself
nor is it served by you being angry
towards somebody else so that's how I do
that all right
question from Tyler wall youtube
long-time impactor third time caller
thank you sir
what are your methods for setting
boundaries in relationships when you're
working on personal projects so I tend
to be aggressive in my boundary setting
I know full well that people will treat
you exactly the way you let them treat
you so if you develop the very caring
compassionate albeit somewhat brash
rogue agent you'll be surprised how
you're able to create those boundaries
and a key part of that so the reason
that boundaries are hard to create is
you actually care about the people that
are trying to intrude on the boundaries
you may care about them because they're
our work colleague and you may need them
for other things may care about them
because they're a loved one either way
if you show up for them and there are
times of need if you help them then it's
going to be very easy for you to draw
that line and say hey look
when you need something I'm there for
you but now I need something and so
either I need you there for me or I just
I don't have the time to give you and to
be able to draw that line in the sand
and not feel badly about yourself which
comes down to what's your code of ethics
and I believe that people should take
care of themselves first so you need to
know that it is not only okay it's
critical to take care of yourself it's
critical to have selfish time it's
critical to be protective of your own
world this is your life to live
you'll only get one shot so really being
protective of that is absolutely
critical to you achieving your goals and
since you know I believe and think you
should to do and believe that which
moves you towards your goals so those
those are the critical elements men so I
would be loving and aggressive about
setting your boundaries all right
Christoph Jelinski Facebook Tom I want
to build a magic show that focuses on
empowerment nice and has the same impact
as a keynote how do you create a keynote
okay so know thy audience that's step
one with the keynote so what is it that
you want to impart to them that is just
hard-won knowledge something that man
has really served you well you'll know
you know that if they adopt that it will
serve them well as well so it is about
value creation so I really stop and
think about who is my audience what do
they know what do they want to know and
what if they learned would really
empower them to be successful in the way
that they want to be successful so
that's and then I just work backwards
from that and then I try to be as clear
and action-oriented as possible I tried
never to do mindset only I try to always
do mix of mindset and actionable items I
think that while inspiration is awesome
people need to know what they can go and
do and so even if that's the how-to of
building the mindset it's still
ultimately a how-to so I would focus on
that and then the magic becomes
basically a way to entertain to grab
their attention but at the end of the
day it needs to be a how-to manual
essentially all right question from
William J Moore how do you handle
emotionally being alone in the world as
an entrepreneur from people you're
supposed to care about like your wife
when you are mentally driven differently
I may need more information how do you
handle emotionally being alone in the
world I'm probably not the right person
as to this question so I have a partner
in my wife where I feel anything but
alone in the world and before I met her
I was so focused on doing what I wanted
to do that I didn't I didn't even think
I was going to get married when I met my
wife I literally had an active stance
that I was never going to get married so
yeah basically let me just answer this
in a relationship context so if you're
in a relationship with somebody and you
guys don't share a value system that's
deeply problematic you need to have that
conversation you need to identify like
what are each of your values and whether
or not it's an okay difference in value
or if you need to get on the same page
and if you need to get on the same page
and you can't then do you go your
opposite directions now obviously I
don't know if you have kids which can
complicate things but if I were in a
relationship with somebody that didn't
have a growth mindset for instance that
didn't understand my ambition which is
the one thing my wife knows she can ask
me to give up anything other than my
ambition that's just a fundamental part
of who I am
so if I were in a situation where
someone were heckling me making me feel
bad they didn't want me to be ambitious
that's not a tenable situation so if I
cared enough about them that I really
wanted to try to make it work I would
outline my values we would either get on
the same page or we would part ways
that's the truth okay question from Dan
bro
what is up homie this is Facebook what
are your thoughts on Nelson Mandela oh
man and his books since reading it my
mum is from South Africa you actually
got me to say mom it's from South Africa
and grew up in apartheid whoa man that's
interesting okay so I'm now a devotee of
Nelson Mandela
I am absolutely blown away and
captivated by that man and by what he
accomplished it is absolutely
mind-blowing he's one of the most
astonishing examples of somebody that
had a long-term view that never gave up
that never gave up think about that for
a second the man went to prison
for 27 years 27 years on the day he got
out he just continued the struggle so
the very thing that got him in prison
and by the way when it was like looking
like he was gonna get out and he was
starting to sort of go out on furloughs
to meet with leaders even before he got
out of prison he was telling people by
the way if we don't elect a new
government that is governed by the
people have a new constitution where
it's one person one vote I'm gonna get
thrown in jail for the same thing that I
was doing before so it like who does
that 27 years in prison and he's telling
people while he's still in prison the
people have the power to get him out if
you don't change I'm just gonna start
blowing [__] up again literally crazy
absolutely amazing to me that he could
have that kind of stalwarts like holding
on to his convictions and see it through
to the end so yeah I'm totally blown
away that's the kind of human being I
want to be and his book long walk to
freedom is just absolutely amazing
I'd be so curious to talk to your mom
about what it was like during that
transition as apartheid was going out
just amazing one of the most interesting
times in recent human history just
incredible incredible beyond measure
alright it's gonna have to be the last
one question from Harvey banned all
Facebook do you think a lot of people
are infatuated with success in other
words they disregard the negatives and
upon the first sign of failure they
resent themselves it's just like a
relationship where you think nothing is
wrong with the other individual what's
your thoughts on this I do think people
are infatuated with success I think
people are really in love with the
notion of what it means and their mind
to be successful I think success as I
define it is worthy of that obsession
that infatuation I think that that makes
all the sense in the world I think that
you have to understand what's important
to you in your life and make sure that
you're getting all of those things so
for instance if you want to be the best
parent ever what does success look like
it looks very different than as I would
define success for me success is all
around the acquisition of skills and to
me that's just it's amazing in and of
itself now if by success you mean money
and you mean money pure and
Boal then that's a really dangerous game
only because it will lead to emotional
dissatisfaction because people usually
don't actually understand money money is
inert doesn't do anything in and of
itself it facilitates though and if you
have a dream that requires money that
dream can actually be manifested through
money I would not be able to do impact
theory like this if I didn't have the
capital that's just true and I'm very
very very aware of that so I'm very
grateful that I've had financial success
in my life but as somebody who spent
almost a decade chasing money only to
come up emotionally bankrupt like I
fully understand how that is ultimately
a waste of time if you're wired like I
am for somebody that just like Warren
Buffett looking at Warren Buffett he
seems to love money as a scorekeeper so
respect like if that's your thing and it
really gets you up and he also seems
like he's a pretty good dude so I'm not
conflicted like he's doing now amazing
things with the capital that he's
generated he's created a lot of jobs for
a lot of people so I've got no hate for
what he's doing even though it does seem
like truly money in and of itself is
something he finds very fascinating in a
way that I don't so yeah those are my
thoughts thank you guys all so much for
the questions I'm always honored by them
coming in if you haven't already by the
way be sure to subscribe here if you're
on Facebook and haven't subscribe to
youtube if you're on YouTube and haven't
subscribed to Facebook make sure you do
that and then my most recent passion
project and this is the core of
everything that we're gonna be doing in
the future if you're a fan of movies TV
shows comic books video games all of
that stuff we've created a new channel
called impact Theory studios on YouTube
go right now impact Theory studios on
YouTube and subscribe we're releasing
content every week we're gonna be
ratcheting it up and releasing more and
more content so go check it out but only
if you're a fan of movies TV shows books
comic books that kind of stuff don't go
just because you enjoy the content that
I put out on my tom bill you channel is
gonna be very very different content but
if you're a fan of that stuff go right
now all right guys like I said if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]